docs: added security section to MCP (#10212)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/automation/palette-mcp/architecture.md

| `SPECTROCLOUD_HOST`               | API endpoint for your Palette installation. For example: `api.spectrocloud.com`.                                                               |
| `ALLOW_DANGEROUS_ACTIONS`         | Controls whether the MCP server is allowed to perform dangerous actions, such as resource deletion. Disabled by default. Set to `1` to enable. |

## Security

> The Palette MCP server is deployed as a container image that is hosted in your compute environment. Any credentials or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Palette MCP server is deployed as a container image that is hosted in your infrastructure environment. Any credentials or
```
I suppose compute environment works 🤔 Just not how I usually hear it.

The Palette MCP server uses a Palette API key to authenticate with the Palette API. This means that the MCP server has
the same permissions as the API key used to authenticate with the Palette API. Actions performed by the MCP server can
be audited through the [Palette audit logs](../../audit-logs/audit-logs.md). When reviewing the audit logs, search for
the user that is associated with the API key used by the Palette MCP server.

An important note to keep in mind about accessing kubeconfig files. If the user's API key has permissions to retrieve
the [admin kubeconfig file](../../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md) for a cluster, then the MCP server will be
able to retrieve the admin kubeconfig file for the cluster.

:::tip

You can control whether a user can access the Kubeconfig files for a cluster by assigning the appropriate
[Palette role](../../user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions.md) to the user. For example, avoid
assigning the cluster admin role to the user. Refer to the
[Kubeconfig Access Permissions](../../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md) section to learn more about how to
control access to the kubeconfig files for a cluster.

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::info

If the user's API key has permissions to retrieve
the [admin kubeconfig file](../../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md) for a cluster, the MCP server can also retrieve the admin kubeconfig file.

You can control whether a user can access a cluster's kubeconfig files by assigning the appropriate
[Palette role](../../user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions.md) to the user. For example, to restrict access to the admin kubeconfig file, avoid
assigning the cluster admin role to the user. Refer to the
[Kubeconfig Access Permissions](../../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md) section to learn more about how to
control access to kubeconfig files.

:::
```

I feel this helps join the two thoughts better.

The Palette MCP server uses the transport protocol `stdio` to communicate with the configured MCP client. This means
that the MCP server is not communicating over the network but, rather sending direct JSON-RPC messages to the MCP client
in the local compute environment. Communication between the Palette MCP server and the Palette API is encrypted using
TLS. We recommend reviewing the MCP protocol's documentation on
[transport mechanisms](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-11-25/basic/transports) to learn more about

> the security of the transport protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Palette MCP server uses the transport protocol `stdio` to communicate with the configured MCP client. With `stdio`, the MCP server communicates by sending direct JSON-Remote Procedure Call (RPC) messages to the MCP client
in the local compute environment instead of sending requests over the network. Communication between the Palette MCP server and the Palette API is encrypted using
Transport Layer Security (TLS). We recommend reviewing the MCP protocol's documentation on
[transport mechanisms](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-11-25/basic/transports) to learn more about
the security of the transport protocol.
```

### Prompt Injection

The Palette MCP server is controlled by the prompts provided to the Large Language Model (LLM) that is used by the
configured MCP client. We recommend you use an LLM model that your organization has approved for use in your
environment. Dangerous actions, such as deletion, are controlled by the `ALLOW_DANGEROUS_ACTIONS` parameter. However, if
you have configured the MCP server to allow dangerous actions, you should be aware of the risks associated with prompt
injection. Take the proper precautions to prevent prompt injection by limiting access to the MCP client and providing
prompts to the LLM.

Prompt injection is a lower-risk attack when your MCP client is a local workstation. Prompt injections are a more
serious concern when an LLM service is exposed on behalf of other users who provide prompts to the LLM.

### Best Practices

When using the Palette MCP server, we recommend the following security best practices:

- Use a dedicated API key for the Palette MCP server.

> - In a production environment, we recommend using a dedicated user where you manage the role permissions for the Palette

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In a production environment, use a dedicated user where you manage the role permissions for the Palette
```
Don't think we need to reiterate "we recommend" since we state it in the intro (and this is a best practices section) :)

  MCP server.
- Review the `ALLOW_DANGEROUS_ACTIONS` parameter and set it to `1` if you need to perform dangerous actions, such as
  delete. By default, dangerous actions are disabled.
- When configuring the mount path for the kubeconfig files, we recommend using a dedicated folder on your machine for
  this configuration. Avoid using an existing folder that is used for other purposes, including maintaining other

>   kubeconfig files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use a dedicated folder on your machine when configuring the mount path for kubeconfig files. Avoid using an existing folder that is used for other purposes, including maintaining other
  kubeconfig files.
```

- Use a `.env` file when configuring the Palette MCP server. You can set the environment variables through the

>   `--environment` flag or the `-e` flag but that exposes the secrets to the command line and potentially in logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use a `.env` file when configuring the Palette MCP server. Setting the environment variables using the `-e` or `--environment` flag in the terminal exposes secrets to the command line and potentially logs.
```

- Rotate the Palette API key for the Palette MCP server regularly. To rotate the API key, you can create a new API key
  and update the `.env-mcp` file with the new API key. If you used inline `-e`, or `--environment` flags, you will need

>   to update the API key provided to the flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and update the `.env-mcp` file with the new API key. If you used inline `-e` or `--environment` flags, you must update the API key provided to the flags.
```

> - Use a model you trust or that has enterprise controls related to data protection and privacy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use an LLM you trust or that has enterprise controls related to data protection and privacy.
```
